[W-11723892] Adding VPN risk docs (#620)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/vpn-risk.adoc

= Anypoint VPN risk
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#cloudhub-deployments", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-platform-pce-deployments", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-runtime-fabric-deployments", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> Every VPN provisioned in Mulesoft has a risk associated depending on the state of the tunnels of the VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every VPN provisioned in Mulesoft has a risk associated depending on the state of the VPN tunnels.
```

> It's important to take into account the risk of each VPN because regularly VPNs are updated without notice.

Reviewer 2: For VPNs that are in High risk, MuleSoft recommends that customers plan to deploy a xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[high-availability VPN] solution to avoid any downtime associated with AWS delivered auto-updates. Please refer the xref:vpn-maintenance.adoc[VPN Maintenance] for more details.

@arodriguez150

> For VPNs that are in High risk, MuleSoft recommends that customers plan to deploy a xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[high-availability VPN] solution to avoid any downtime associated with AWS delivered auto-updates. Please refer the xref:vpn-maintenance.adoc[VPN Maintenance] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For High risk VPNs, deploy a xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[high-availability VPN] solution to avoid any downtime associated with AWS-delivered auto-updates. Refer to xref:vpn-maintenance.adoc[VPN Maintenance] for more details.
```

== Risk types

> As mentioned before, the risk of a VPN depends on the number of UP tunnels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VPN risk depends on the number of UP tunnels.
```

There are 3 types of risk:

* UNAVAILABLE
* LOW
* HIGH

> If both tunnels of the VPN are down, the risk of the VPN will be *UNAVAILABLE*, since no data is going through the VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both tunnels of the VPN are down, the VPN risk will be *UNAVAILABLE*, since no data is going through the VPN.
```

If the VPN has one tunnel UP and the other one DOWN, then the VPN will have *HIGH* risk.

If the VPN has both tunnels UP, then the VPN will have *LOW* risk.

> == Check VPN risk in Anypoint Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Check the VPN Risk in Anypoint Platform
```

> The risk associated of your VPNs will be shown in Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The risk associated with your VPNs is shown in Anypoint Platform.
```

To check your VPN risk:

> . Open Anypoint Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Sign into Anypoint Platform.
```

> . Go to Runtime Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to Runtime Manager.
```

> . Open the VPNs tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open the *VPNs* tab.
```

> . Check the *Risk* of all VPNs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the *Downtime Risk* column for your VPNs.
```

image:vpn-risk.png[VPN risk UI]

== See Also

* xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[Anypoint VPN High Availability]
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/vpn-redundant-connection.html[Using Redundant Site-to-Site VPN Connections to Provide failover]

> 

Reviewer 2: https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/vpn-maintenance

@arodriguez150
